<figure>1</figure>
<caption>Figure 1: Heat Map for En-Hi (marker, news_2015) system. Color in cell indicates proportion of errors (y-axis: reference set, x-axis: hypothesis set)</caption>
<mention10>"... Indian languages using heat maps of the character-level confusion matrices (Figure 1 shows one for En-Hi). We observed that the following ..."</mention10>
<mention20>"... also tried to identify the major errors in English to Indian languages using heat maps of the character-level confusion matrices (Figure 1 shows one for En-Hi). We observed that the following errors are common across all EnglishIndian language pairs in the ..."</mention20>
<mention50>"... (ii) wrong consonants in the initial and final syllable, and (iii) incorrect or spurious generation of halanta (inherent vowel suppressor) character. Some examples of these corrections are shown below: We also tried to identify the major errors in English to Indian languages using heat maps of the character-level confusion matrices (Figure 1 shows one for En-Hi). We observed that the following errors are common across all EnglishIndian language pairs in the shared task: (i) incorrect generation of vowel diacritics, especially confusion between long and short vowels, (ii) schwa deletion, (iii) confusion between dental and retroflex consonants, (iv) incorrect or spurious generation ..."</mention50>
<lines3> Word boundary markers also reduce the following errors: (i) missing initial vowels, (ii) wrong consonants in the initial and final syllable, and (iii) incorrect or spurious generation of halanta (inherent vowel suppressor) character. Some examples of these corrections are shown below: We also tried to identify the major errors in English to 1ndian languages using heat maps of the character-level confusion matrices (Figure 1 shows one for En-Hi). We observed that the following errors are common across all English1ndian language pairs in the shared task: (i) incorrect generation of vowel diacritics, especially confusion between long and short vowels, (ii) schwa deletion, (iii) confusion between dental and retroflex consonants, (iv) incorrect or spurious generation of halanta (inherent vowel suppressor) character as well as the aakar maatra (vowel diacritic for आ(aa))"</lines3>
<lines5> An analysis of improvement for the EnHi pair shows that a major reason for the improve-  Top-1 Accuracy  F-score  MRR  P  M  T  M+T  P  M  T  M+T  P  M  T   Table 2: Top-1 accuracy on NEWS 2015 development set without tuning (in %) ment seems to the correct generation of vowel diacritics (maatraa). Word boundary markers also reduce the following errors: (i) missing initial vowels, (ii) wrong consonants in the initial and final syllable, and (iii) incorrect or spurious generation of halanta (inherent vowel suppressor) character. Some examples of these corrections are shown below: We also tried to identify the major errors in English to 1ndian languages using heat maps of the character-level confusion matrices (Figure 1 shows one for En-Hi). We observed that the following errors are common across all English1ndian language pairs in the shared task: (i) incorrect generation of vowel diacritics, especially confusion between long and short vowels, (ii) schwa deletion, (iii) confusion between dental and retroflex consonants, (iv) incorrect or spurious generation of halanta (inherent vowel suppressor) character as well as the aakar maatra (vowel diacritic for आ(aa)). Hi and Ba show confusion between sibilants (स,श,ष), while Ta and Ka exhibits incorrect or spurious generation of य (ya)"</lines5>
<snippet3> Word boundary markers also reduce the following errors: (i) missing initial vowels, (ii) wrong consonants in the initial and final syllable, and (iii) incorrect or spurious generation of halanta (inherent vowel suppressor) character. Some examples of these corrections are shown below: We also tried to identify the major errors in English to 1ndian languages using heat maps of the character-level confusion matrices (Figure 1 shows one for En-Hi). We observed that the following errors are common across all English1ndian language pairs in the shared task: (i) incorrect generation of vowel diacritics, especially confusion between long and short vowels, (ii) schwa deletion, (iii) confusion between dental and retroflex consonants, (iv) incorrect or spurious generation of halanta (inherent vowel suppressor) character as well as the aakar maatra (vowel diacritic for आ(aa))"</snippet3>
<snippet5> An analysis of improvement for the EnHi pair shows that a major reason for the improve-  Top-1 Accuracy  F-score  MRR  P  M  T  M+T  P  M  T  M+T  P  M  T   Table 2: Top-1 accuracy on NEWS 2015 development set without tuning (in %) ment seems to the correct generation of vowel diacritics (maatraa). Word boundary markers also reduce the following errors: (i) missing initial vowels, (ii) wrong consonants in the initial and final syllable, and (iii) incorrect or spurious generation of halanta (inherent vowel suppressor) character. Some examples of these corrections are shown below: We also tried to identify the major errors in English to 1ndian languages using heat maps of the character-level confusion matrices (Figure 1 shows one for En-Hi). We observed that the following errors are common across all English1ndian language pairs in the shared task: (i) incorrect generation of vowel diacritics, especially confusion between long and short vowels, (ii) schwa deletion, (iii) confusion between dental and retroflex consonants, (iv) incorrect or spurious generation of halanta (inherent vowel suppressor) character as well as the aakar maatra (vowel diacritic for आ(aa)). Hi and Ba show confusion between sibilants (स,श,ष), while Ta and Ka exhibits incorrect or spurious generation of य (ya)"</snippet5>
<abstract>Our NEWS 2015 shared task submission is a PBSMT based transliteration system with the following corpus preprocessing enhancements: (i) addition of word-boundary markers, and (ii) language-independent, overlapping character segmentation. We show that the addition of word-boundary markers improves transliteration accuracy substantially, whereas our overlapping segmentation shows promise in our preliminary analysis. We also compare transliteration systems trained using manually created corpora with the ones mined from parallel translation corpus for English to Indian language pairs. We identify the major errors in English to Indian language transliterations by analyzing heat maps of confusion matrices.</abstract>
<title>Data representation methods and use of mined corpora for Indian language transliteration</title>
<introduction>Machine Transliteration can be viewed as a problem of transforming a sequence of characters in one alphabet to another. Transliteration can be seen as a special case of the general translation problem between two languages. The primary differences from the general translation problem are: (i) limited vocabulary size, and (ii) simpler grammar with no reordering. Phrase based statistical machine translation (PB-SMT) is a robust and well-understood technology and can be easily adopted for application to the transliteration problem (Noeman, 2009;Finch and Sumita, 2010). Our submission to the NEWS 2015 shared task is a PBSMT system. Over a baseline PBSMT system, we address two issues: (i) suitable data representation for training, and (ii) parallel transliteration corpus availability.In many writing systems, the same logical/phonetic symbols can have different character representations depending on whether it occurs in initial, medial or terminal word position. For instance, Indian scripts have different characters for independent vowels and vowel diacritics. Independent vowels typically occurs at the beginning of the word, while diacritics occur in medial and terminal positions. The pronounciation, and hence the transliteration could also depend on the position of the characters. For instance, the terminal ion in nation would be pronounced differently from initial one in ionize. PBSMT learning of character sequence mappings is agnostic of the position of the character in the word. Hence, we explore to transform the data representation to encode position information. Zhang et al. (2012) did not report any benefit from such a representation for Chinese-English transliteration. We investigated if such encoding useful for alphabetic and consonantal scripts as opposed to logographic scripts like Chinese.It is generally believed that syllabification of the text helps improve transliteration systems. However, syllabification systems are not available for all languages. Tiedemann (2012) proposed a character-level, overlapping bigram representation in the context of machine translation using transliteration. We can view this as weak, coarse and language independent syllabification approach. We explore this overlapping, segmentation approach for the transliteration task.For many language pairs, parallel transliteration corpora are not publicly available. However, parallel translation corpora like Europarl ( Koehn, 2005) and ILCI (Jha, 2012) are available for many language pairs. Transliteration corpora mined from such parallel corpora has been shown to be useful for machine translation, cross lingual information retrieval, etc. ( Kunchukuttan et al., 2014). In this paper, we make an intrinsic evaluation of the performance of the automatically mined BrahmiNet transliteration corpus ( Kunchukuttan et al., 2015) for transliteration between English and Indian languages. The BrahmiNet corpus contains transliteration corpora for 110 Indian language pairs mined from the ILCI corpus, a parallel translation corpora of 11 Indian languages (Jha, 2012).The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 and Section 3 describes our system and experimental setup respectively. Section 4 discusses the results of various data representation methods and the use of mined corpus respectively. Section 5 concludes the report.</introduction>
<file>W15-3912-Figure1-1.png</file>
